# Chocal Chat Server

Chocal Chat is a cross platform application that can run in a local network.

This repository contains the server application that is needed to handle clients.

# Install

1. Chocal Chat server application is based on Qt Quick, so you need to install Qt development tools. It is tested on Fedora 23 but not on Mac or Windows. Although it should be run there without any problems.

2. Clone repository from github and open `ChocalServer.pro` in Qt Creator.

# Standards

## General Type Of A Message That Should Be Sent To Server:

```javascript
{
    user_key: "",
    type: "",
    message: "",
    image: "",
    image_type: "" // If image is presented
}
```

`type` should be one of `plain`, `image` or `register`.
`message` is the message that user wants to send to others.
`image` is base64 encoded string of the image that user wants to send. This should have a value when using `type` of `image`, but in other cases it can be empty. Note that when `type` is `image`, there should be an `image_type` field which includes MIME type of image.
`user_key` is validation key of client to connect to server. This key will generate once user is first connected to server and will return back to client. In next messages client should provide this key.

## General Type Of A Message That Server Will Send To Clients:

```javascript
{
    type: "",
    name: "",
    message: "",
    image: "",
    image_type: "" // If image is presented
}
```

`type` will be one of `plain`, `image`, `info`, `update`, `accepted` or `error`.
`name` is sender client name.
`message` is the message that user wants to send to others.
`image` is base64 encoded string of the image that user wants to send. This will have a value when using `type` of `image`, but in other cases it will be empty. Note that when `type` is `image`, there should be an `image_type` field which includes MIME type of image.

## Message Types:

Chocal Server will send these type of message to clients.

1. `accepted` : Means client is successfuly connected to server and now can send messages. When type is `accepted` Chocal Server will also another filed named `online_users` which includes name and image of all current online users.
2. `plain` : Means normal text message.
3. `image` : Means an image message.
4. `info` : Means an informative message that is not actually sent by a client and it is generated by server.
5. `update` : Means some change has ocurred.
6. `error` : Means something went wrong and server is sent error details to client or clients.

On the other hand Chocal Server will expect these type of messages to recieve:

1. `register` : Means that client wants to connect to chat.
2. `plain` : Means normal text message.
3. `image` : Means an image message.

## How To Connect To Server:

Clients can connect to server by sending below message to server:

```javascript
{
    type: "register",
    name: "",
    image: "", // Optional
    image_type: "" // Required when image is presented
}
```

If the `name` is taken currently the server will return an error message, otherwise it will be return a message of type `accepted` to client with a `user_key` property like this:

```javascript
{
    type: "accepted",
    name: "",
    message: "",
    user_key: "",
    
    online_clients: [
        {
            name: "",
            image: "",
            image_type""
        },
        ...
    ]
}
```

At this point, client is connected to server successfuly and now is able to send messages using its `user_key`. Note that currently online clients are passed in `online_clients` field which is an array of objects that have `name`, `image` and `image_type` fields.

## How To Handle Updates?

When a new change is made, Chocal Server will send an `update` message to all clients. These updates are following below structure:

```javascript
{
    type: "update",
    update: "",
    name: "",
    ...
}
```

In the `update` field we have one of `userJoined` or `userLeft` values.

* If it is `userJoined` means a new user is joined to chat and his Avatar picture will be in the `image` field in base64 encode and MIME type of avatar will be in `image_type` field.
* If it has value of `userLeft` it means a user had left the chat and we can find his name in `name` field.

# Clients

I have planned to create several type of clients for Chocal Server. But in the meantime I'm working on web client. Although by the roadmap we should have a desktop client that can be run on Mac, Linux and Windows and also an Android app.

* Chocal Chat Web Client : https://github.com/J-TAG/chocal-chat-web
